It's nice to read a book about a father.
I just did a PW interview with James Carroll and his book about his father.
Oh, yes, they had some difficulties.
I did an interview for my call this week on Mary Gordon and her book about her father.
Are you familiar with her book?
We have it, and my wife is reading it.
I haven't read it yet.
Of course, she discovers that her father is...
a great deceiver and a phony and anti-Semite and all those other things.
So I have to tell you, it's nice to have a peaceful Father's Day where Dad's a really good guy.
Well, my dad was a good guy.
I mean, it could be that I'm just such a sorry reporter that I'm not understanding that he was doing bootlegging on the side or something, but I don't think so.
I think that he...
He was an admirable character.
It is sort of embarrassing to write about your family when it wasn't really dysfunctional.
I can't... I think I mentioned in the book I never heard my parents raise their voices to each other or even speak harshly to each other.
maybe they did somewhere but not in my hearing so and my dad I think was what he was in a way on the other hand like a lot of Americans of that generation I think of sort of the turn of the century immigrant generation or the children of those people he was more complicated than he seemed on the surface and had a lot of aspects to him that weren't
If you just met him, it would seem just rather quiet.
This actually was a New Yorker piece, I think.
Yeah.
Originally, about a couple of years ago, I guess right around this time, it ran in the New Yorker as a sort of reminiscence.
At the time, I didn't think I knew enough to write a book.
I mean, write just simply enough to write a book.
And then, I don't know, a year or so later, we decided to do it as a book, even though it would be a very small book.
And I thought I would add, I don't know, a thousand words or something.
But as it turned out, I added about 40%.
I think I... Yeah, it's about... It's not twice as long as the New Yorker piece, but it's considerably...
Just kind of curiosity, approximately how many words did you say?
It's probably just under 30,000 words, probably somewhere 28, 30,000, something like that.
I think I probably had a lot of information and memories and thoughts about this in the crevices of my mind that I didn't realize I had.
Actually, every time I got it back, I kept adding more and more.
Well, I like every chapter that has a little, almost even a little phrase, you know, it stands to reason, the act of swearing off a father or a grocer.
You know, you must have just kind of remembered certain shades or certain aspects.
Yeah.
Well, I think that's true.
And also, somebody asked me yesterday how I...
remember things about my father who after all died in 1967 as a young man and but I was talking the other day to somebody who had interviewed me about just a little profile or something for a book magazine or something years ago and he said you know I read the book and I remember some of the stories I mean obviously these some of those stories about my father were sort of
part of my memory before I realized I was going to write about it and so and then recalling them sort of brought up other things but it was mainly that I decided from the beginning that I wasn't going to do the sort of book where you go and
find out what St.
Joe was like in 1922 or something.
Well, I think she did because that was what was interesting about her father.
And I think her father died when she was very young.
Everything was mythic.
and you did have some factual yeah I had I had my dad you know until I grew up and and um so it was uh it was a different situation and also I always knew that um I mean I always did realize that it was hard for me to uh imagine my life without my father I mean without his aspirations without his examples um
I really felt his presence for much longer.
I think also Mary had the situation where her father obviously was, one, maybe not what he appeared to be, and two, what he appeared to be was odd enough.
I mean, she did know.
I mean, as I remember, as I say, I haven't started it yet, but as I remember, it wasn't that he didn't
claimed to have been Jewish from the start.
So she knew he was a Jewish anti-Semite to start with, right?
She knew he was anti-Semitic.
She didn't know that he came, that he was an immigrant.
Right.
She didn't know that his first language was Yiddish.
She didn't know that his name had been Israel, which he changed, or his family changed to David.
He lied about his age.
He said he went to Harvard.
He really didn't construct, fabricate a new identity for himself.
And there are a number of books, not a number, but I mean, obviously it's a different situation.
I mean, it's something like Jeffrey Wolf's book about his father, who...
I don't think Jeffrey Wolf realized his father was Jewish.
Duke of Deception was the title of the book.
Yeah, exactly.
He must have been in college or out of it before he realized that his father had lied about almost everything.
But my father was very strict about lying.
I mean, there wasn't any question of anybody lying about anything and had very strict notions about all that.
Yes, and it would have been, I guess, particularly shocking to me if I, because that was sort of the center of my father's character.
But he had no pretensions, your father.
No, that's right.
He was in his mind's eye, and then you were as well.
He was closer.
That's right.
Even though he was much more substantial than that phrase.
No, but that's what he was, and he didn't have any pretensions, and not only that, he sort of mocked pretensions.
I mean, his phrase...
Big Knocker.
I think once you've really completely digested the phrase from your youth, Big Knocker, it's very hard to look at that and look at pretentious people with anything but a little bit of contempt just from that one phrase.
And he was decidedly Kansas City, too, wasn't he?
Yeah, or St.
Joe.
I'm not sure what.
Yeah, yeah.
He was very Midwestern, yeah.
I mean, it was odd that, you know, when I talk about his humor, that he both collected Yiddish curses.
He liked all sorts of curses, but I think he was basically a specialist in the Yiddish curse of, you know, the sort of may have an itch, boy, it's impossible to scratch sort of curse.
But also...
You know, his favorite joke was that joke I mentioned about the traveling salesman stopping to ask directions of the boy lying under a tree, acting, asking, saying to the boy, if you can show me a lazier act in that, I'll give you a dime.
And the boy says, put it in my pocket.
I mean, it's a totally Midwestern joke.
Or, I mean, he loves sort of Midwestern play dumb, put on sort of humor.
And his favorite writer, of course, was O. Henry Rove.
He loved the sort of flip-ending odd.
Well, you do point out that you live close to—there's a tree that has some sort of O. Henry Rove.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah, the tree in our backyard, in fact, in New York, is constantly being explained by tour guides, who also sometimes explain that the same courtyard was the setting for Rear Window.
Even though... I don't think so.
No.
Rear window, in fact, was shot on the lot.
But if it looked like anything, it was maybe Murray Hill or someplace like that.
It didn't look anything like a 19th century courtyard in Greenwich Village.
But a lot of people sort of nod sagely when they say that.
And then they say that the tree was the tree that the last leaf, the O. Henry story.
It's perfect for me for Father's Day, of course, and I'm sure you were mindful and your publisher was mindful of this.
Ah, Forrest Strauss, right out there on the edge of the cutting edge of marketing.
Yeah, I knew stories from about 25 newspapers, and it's a sales job, you know, and I pitch things, and I found a good deal of success pitching things and tying them in, and this year I had three different
And, you know, I moved Mary for this week.
I'm going to save Jim.
I already did him for PW, and then I'll adapt to Pete McComb.
But this is the one I like as a father.
As a father.
Every guy isn't an asshole.
You'll excuse my grief.
Well, no, I think, I mean, it is odd, although, you know, it's in a way the same thing
situation of people asking, why do newspapers print so much bad news?
That's the news.
And that ordinarily, if your father is who he seems, a regular person, goes to work in the morning, so much for that.
And I have to say that I had questions in my mind when I started doing this.
Here I am writing down anecdotes
about a grocer in Kansas City.
Why would anybody be interested in that?
I mean, you know, I think that, you know, eventually if you continue with a book, it means that you're getting to feel, well, maybe it's about something else or maybe it's about, you know, about being a parent or transmitting values or some of those
people in that generation who I think are sort of unappreciated in some ways in the sense that somebody asked, well, what does this have to do with one of your girls to know about things?
Of course, because in the same way that we used to have a very small well
in Nova Scotia where we lived in the summer.
And unlike New York, where you turn on the tap and the water comes out, if it didn't rain sufficiently, we had water problems in Nova Scotia.
And I thought, I mean, they were irritating, but I thought in the long run, that's probably good for the girls.
I mean, that there's actually a connection between things, that things just didn't happen, and that the life that they grew up in in New York
Where, for instance, as an example, most of the people we know are in work that vaguely or specifically, or even gloriously in some cases, pleases them.
I mean, it's what they want to do.
That's why they're there.
My father worked for years in the grocery business, which he hated from the beginning.
almost literally, as I say in the book.
He was a grocer, so I didn't have to be a grocer.
It seems to me good for my girls to see this didn't just happen.
Somebody actually planned this.
He planned for me to be there and planned for me to be able to go to Yale, planned for me to have the sort of opportunities that would allow me to work in the sort of thing that I wanted to work in instead of what I had to work in.
And so in my specific case, and it's usually not as clear as it is in my case because it gets sort of muddied in a number of ways, you know what I mean?
My life is sort of a product of his life, and I'm sure that I wanted my girls to see that.
But it did seem strange thinking, wait a minute, this is not a man of
or there's just not anybody who said he was one thing and did the other.
He was really who he was and without any sort of apologies for anything.
And so why am I doing this?
But then I sort of couldn't stop, and so here it is.
Of course, you're a reporter.
You're a journalist by profession and a distinguished one over many years standing.
This is not a piece of journalism.
No.
This is memory, really.
It's memory, yeah.
And you didn't go out and do any reporting, per se.
Not really, no.
I kind of looked for whatever I had on paper about my father.
It's a different exercise, I guess.
Yeah, it is a completely different exercise.
I mean, that would have been possible, but it seems to me...
that it wasn't the direction that was likely to result in anything very interesting.
I mean, in fact, you know, really researching, say, Kansas City during my father's youth or what the grocery business was like in Kansas City.
I mean, St.
Joe during my father's youth or Kansas City during that.
It didn't seem to me, you know, sometimes there's a danger of making more of something than it is so that you have this, I think I would have been in a position of having this little storyline trying to hold up these long digressions that didn't have a whole lot to do with it.
I'm not going to put it in my piece, but it is interesting.
Mary, for instance, because that is a book I just wrote about it.
Right.
She said when she originally wrote this book, she did 120 pages of her father's writing.
And she included it.
And she said one of the great disappointments were to discover how bad of a writer he was.
And then her editor said, Mary, this is terrible stuff.
Maybe you should talk a little bit about it.
Maybe you should not be indulging yourself with his writing.
There are one or two things that I found almost by accident.
One thing I had when I did the New Yorker version and for some reason didn't
I think because I didn't quite understand what I was doing as well as I later did I had this letter that my father had obviously saved and then my sister had it and my mother's my mother had saved a few envelopes of things that my father had saved and I had a letter that's mentioned late in the book that I had written him when I got a
a chance to go to the New Yorker from time.
I had that letter before, but I somehow, I don't think I saw what it was, that it was really a way for me to try to at least start to explain to my father some stuff I should have explained before, but also that it was a way for me to try to
persuade him that I was acting responsibly and that I was maybe even sensible.
And I think that in that era, I think it's maybe less true now because family responsibilities have changed to some extent, but in that era, I think fathers had, in addition to their other worries about how they raised a son, that when he grew up
It was important to them that he would be sensible enough to take on the responsibilities of being what was then called the head of the household himself.
Well, you didn't even ask how much you were going to get paid.
Oh, and that really shocked the hell out of him.
I mean, that one just staggered him.
My father would go nuts over that one, too.
I mean, the silence on the phone when he asked how much the salary was, and I...
I just knew, oh my God, what have I done?
I hadn't even asked.
I felt the need to explain that, and that in the long run it didn't make any difference that it was going to work out, probably.
Something like that was important for the book, that one document, and there were a couple of others.
It was accidental and had nothing to do with the book,
that this wonderful man in California just totally as an act of kindness found the boat manifest showing my grandfather's arrival and my aunt and my father and my grandmother's arrival two or three years later.
Just because he kind of does that sort of stuff as a hobby, and he wrote me a letter saying...
he realized that it was easy to find because of the Galveston Project.
There were only 10,000 Jews involved in the Galveston Project.
And he said, I remember he said, it's all in one drawer in a number of libraries, all these boats manifest and things.
And he said there was even one on Varick Street.
close to me in the village.
He looked up and he said, looks like it's close to your house where you live.
He's in California.
And then he said, I realized by the time I got through explaining to you how to do this, I could do it myself.
And he sent me all this stuff.
Wasn't that great?
As a reporter, I was just astonished by it.
I just couldn't believe I had it.
There it said their names right there on this
And I had only known the town they came from for about a year.
I mean, I went, what, 50 or 60 years without even knowing where they came from.
And then suddenly he not only told me where they came from, but the name of the boat and everything.
It's just remarkable.
I didn't know that they had that extensive documentation.
Yeah.
And not only that, he sent me the census...
for St.
Joe in 1910 and in 1920.
And in those days, the census listed every person and the person's address and the person's occupation.
And my family was in there in 1910.
They were in there in 1920, showing who they were, what work they did.
There was my uncle, Benny, my favorite great uncle.
And so it was...
A couple of things like that were really nice, but that's a long answer to the question.
I didn't really see this as a sort of repertorial search.
You weren't documenting him.
What I was trying to do was to write partly about his effect on me, which...
And I think one of the differences between me and my father and other people and their fathers, although some people may have the same situation, it was very clear in my case that my father sort of planned me.
I mean, he had some very specific notion about what was going to happen to his son, including where he was going to go to college.
But not the problem so much.
No, although I think that was in the air.
I mean, as I say in the book, I kind of look back for signs, and I maybe look a little too hard, because I want to believe I'm doing something that would have pleased him.
And he seemed pleased when I started it.
And he was...
still alive when I went to the New Yorker, of course.
I love the fact that they had to go subscribe to it.
I mean, you probably didn't know that much about it.
No, no.
He was not a, um... Time they knew.
So, yeah, they knew time, and time was, you know, and, and, um, I seemed to be doing all right, and I, um, at one point, time did one of those publisher's letters during, I think it was during the Freedom Ride, when I was in the bus station in the Freedom Ride.
And, um,
They liked that.
There's my picture in there.
So, yeah, they were, my father was a little wary about the move to New York.
I mean, particularly when I told him I had no idea what I was going to be paid.
You at one point, I think, said that you expected to go back to Kansas City.
Yes.
To be interviewed, hailed as the, uh.
Yes, exactly.
I don't think I had thought about it much, but I think I mentioned in a book that I remember when there was an option of learning how to play squash, and I said, why would I do that?
There aren't any squash courts in Kansas City.
Am I going to go 235 miles to St.
Louis to play squash?
I was talking about that in Omaha recently with a Yale alumnus from an old family in Omaha.
And he said, oh, yes, the University Club, or the Kansas City Club, I can't remember what he said, had squash courts.
And I said, not for us.
No, it didn't.
I'm sorry.
That was not quite within our frame of reference.
I didn't know about it.
How do you suppose you fixed on Yale?
Oh, I know.
It was Stover.
I mean, he read this book, Stover at Yale.
I quoted some of the book in Remembering Denny.
I had never actually read it, even though it obviously was a great deflection on my life.
But my wife actually asked him, because she didn't believe me that that's why I'd gone to Yale.
And he said, oh, I read this book.
And he had...
He had read it, I assume, as a child.
It came out in 1911, and my father was born in 1905, so he read it when he was a 15-year-old or something, maybe.
I'm sorry, he was born in 1906, so he read it pretty, you know, it was almost contemporary when he read it.
And it was really odd.
I mean, the writing in it sounds like kind of an English schoolboy novel, you know, people being called chaps and stuff like that.
And Goodfellow.
I mean, there he was reading it in a house where English probably wasn't even spoken.
This is very odd.
But he had fixed on that.
As I said, he was temporarily very impressed by Princeton at the college night in my high school because the guy at the Princeton booth
said that Princeton did not allow undergraduates to have automobiles.
And an absolute prohibition was really the way to my father's heart.
I mean, he loved that idea.
No automobiles.
Was he mindful that these Ivy League schools had quotas against Jewish students?
Well, he asked at this one night, this one moment of panic that he had before I went to Yale,
our probably fourth trip to the college night at Southwest High School.
And this rather patrician Yale representative was just an alumnus who was volunteering for that.
But they still do it.
Yeah.
From an old, I think, Kansas City, probably stockyard or agriculture business family.
My father had two questions that really astounded me.
One of them was whether Yale had some course in accounting, because he wouldn't want me to come out totally ignorant of just rudimentary bookkeeping.
And what astounded me about that is not the connection between Yale and accounting.
I didn't know anything about Yale as far as I knew.
They taught shorthand.
I didn't know anything about it.
But I thought that he assumed that I was sort of above this sort of thing, that I was going to be something other than a business person.
I wouldn't have to worry about that.
And almost...
what's called in Yiddish a yeshiva bracha, a guy who just is a scholar or something.
He doesn't worry about practical things.
But I think that accounting question has to do with the American father's concern that his son be sensible and be able to support his family.
Have some skills to fall back on.
And then the other thing he asked was whether Yale had some sort of quota that would keep me, that might keep me out even if I qualified in other ways.
They never admitted to the quota.
No, and in fact that surprised me a lot too because he simply never talked about that sort of thing.
I was not raised at all with the thought that there was any restriction on what I could do.
And he didn't.
My father, I think, ordinarily would have considered that sort of thing fetching.
You know, he said, just go, you know, do what you're supposed to do.
He was a fairly assimilated American.
Yeah, I mean, in his views, he was very similar.
And he never, never talked about, oh, isn't it a shame that you can't do this.
I mean,
We were, I mean, there wasn't anything that... That just wasn't part of the discourse?
It wasn't part of the discourse.
I mean, I suppose that we lived in a place where we couldn't have joined the Kansas City Country Club.
I mean, it was so far from our lives.
I mean, you know, it didn't occur.
And the guy said none that he knew about.
And, of course, one of the odd things is that this was...
The year I got out of high school, so this was 52 or 53.
I got out of high school in 53.
And it was actually a period when I think most people assumed that the quota business was over.
But in fact, in about 62 or 63, after I left Yale, some people at Yale, led by I think the Hillel rabbi, had done a study
over the years and had come up with what they suspected, which was a suspiciously consistent number of Jews in each incoming class.
And, of course, what was going on, whether it was university policy or not, but these old boys in the admissions office were probably in a sub-roser way.
I mean, they weren't
keeping out jews and at all you know they but they were they were letting in they were maintaining a balance they probably would have said if you got them into a corner so so he wasn't that wrong about it i mean it was going on um if you say through the very end that the
coded messages to your children.
And I think maybe that's what it is.
Right.
Well, at least.
.
Some of the messages I
But I know that I didn't want it to be as different from my upbringing as it seemed to be in the surface.
So I guess what you're saying is a lot of what you got from your father was by implication and by influence.
Yes.
And I also thought that it was that when I think about my father in terms of sort of what happens today in various ways, I think my father had what
what are, I'm sure, considered extremely square notions about most things.
But I realize, and my wife was raised in somewhat similar circumstances.
She was the only child, so she was treated not as the girl who was going to stay home, but, you know, and her father, her mother was Jewish and her father was a
He had really come from a farm in North Carolina and run away from home.
So he was almost as much of an immigrant as my father was, I mean, in New York.
But we both realized we had been raised in very square circumstances and also that we really valued having been raised in very square circumstances.
And I think what I was saying there is that superficially...
as I mentioned, in the sense of the sort of people they know, the sort of place they live, the level of education that's assumed from everybody around them, to some extent the opportunities they sort of take for granted rather than are considered unusual that my father wanted from me.
I suppose that I wanted the theme of their upbringing to some extent to be
despite all evidence to the contrary, you're being raised in Kansas City.
This is really like a little outpost of Kansas City here, and you don't see the walls around it, but they're there.
And you have dedicated the book to your daughters.
They never knew their grandfather.
Right.
And so this certainly does enable you to give them...
Yeah, I mean, I hope that this gives them some, you know, they knew some stories, I guess, but not really.
I mean, you know if you have kids, you don't sit there and say, all right, now we're going to tell you about your mom.
I mean, it just doesn't work out that way.
And I certainly didn't think I was starting the book for that reason, but as I finished it, I realized that
that I did want them to have something in one place.
I'm so pleased with my daughter.
I have two daughters.
They're 15 and 13.
My parents are alive, and I never knew any of my grandparents.
That's something you miss.
Oh, it's wonderful to have two grandparents.
My mother was a really good grandmother.
But the other thing that's valuable for kids, I think, is
is just knowing that there are people out there who are really blood beyond just their immediate family.
And my wife, for complicated reasons, basically doesn't have any family.
I mean, her parents are dead, and her father never went back to North Carolina, so that whole side is unknown to her.
and her mother had a small warring family that literally just didn't end up, you know, with any.
So, and I, my family was basically in Kansas City, and I think we were quite conscious of, not just because my mother was there, we wanted her to be able to spend some time with the kids, she sometimes came to New York, but
But also, and I had my sisters in Kansas City, cousins and nephews.
And it was also very nice to be able to drop them off in Kansas City, there's no question about that, and then feel that they were absolutely safe and taken care of by their own family.
But I also was very conscious of wanting them to know that they had a family, that they had people who were actually
responsible for them um you know the Navajos actually have have specific uh roles for all of these people to play I mean an uncle a maternal uncle is responsible in a way that and I think it's among other things in the Navajos that it's really a great idea
You're how old now yourself?
I'm 60.
So you're about the age.
I'm about the age when my father died, yeah.
And of course, when he died, you probably thought he was very old, right?
I did.
Well, I didn't think he was very old.
He was old.
I mean, because my mother's father was still alive.
He lived with them by then.
Uh, so he was still someone who had an older, you know, the next generation.
But of course, yeah, I thought my father was sort of old.
And the other thing is that my father had, because of his health, sort of retreated from business to a certain extent so that he wasn't doing a whole lot when he was my age.
I mean, he was, he was technically working in real estate, but he was home a lot.
And, um,
And he was doing a lot of fishing and things.
And so he seemed sort of retired.
But certainly perspectives do change, yes.
When I think in those days that he was my age, yeah.
I feel fine today.
We always try, I know my father's biggest, his father, my father's father died, he was, you know, 60.
Right.
And I know, my father's big, he's 25.
I mean, his, the big achievement for him was to pass.
Pass, get over that little hump, yeah.
Get over that little hump.
I'm from a family that... And he had tremendous anxiety about that, really.
It was very real.
But in fact, I mean, statistically, if he gets by that hump, and I think the next few years, then... He'd go forever.
He'd go forever.
He's deaf as a stone, but other than that, he's... Well, that's great.
He's still healthy, those things.
And he gets around, but yeah, well, that's what counts.
That's when my Uncle Benny had his 90th birthday party in St.
Joe.
I went back for it because I really liked him.
And his son, my cousin, has said, well, Pop's a real pain in the neck.
This was the beginning of his speech.
But he's got his marvels.
He said, well, if you'd
When you lose your marbles, you're far fallen.
When you get it, you're gone.
I've been interviewing some people, as it happens, for this new book that I'm writing.
People just happen to be in their 80s and 90s.
And if they've got it, it's... Oh, absolutely.
Is Otto Bettman from the Bettman Archive?
He's still alive?
No, no, is he alive?
I went to Florida.
I've heard times have a big story of the Bettman Archive being sold to Bill Gates.
And they had a little telephone interview, and I said, geez.
For various reasons, I really wanted to go see him.
And I wound up spending two days with the guy.
He's touched every decade of the century.
And when they have it, the wisdom that just accrues.
Oh, yeah.
It's synergistic.
It's amazing how it just keeps growing.
And it is true that there are some people...
who are in their 90s.
And like Al Hirschfield, 90, 91, whatever he is, seems just the same as he was.
I know it.
There's a guy I interviewed a couple of years ago.
He just died about two years ago.
His name was Dave Kirschenbaum.
He was a big New York book singer.
And he died at the age of 99, a week after they had a party for him and sheltered these.
And, boy, he could tell you stories that were wonderful, you know, wonderful, wonderful stories.
We had a guy in our town in Nova Scotia who was the only sort of, at least in the modern era, our town used to be bigger in the wooden boat era, but it was just a couple hundred people around.
And the only real success story of the town was this man, Joe Letson, who
became a surveyor and then left and somehow became, which is where I became, I think, probably a president of one of the subsidiaries of a big oil company or something.
Came back to retire, bought the parsonage, and came back.
And when he was 65, retired.
It was 1940-something.
And so he was still around a couple years ago.
He was in his late 90s,
wonderful guy great memory could tell you very specific things about the town about which boat was there and came from a long-lived family and had a cousin from Milton down the road who they said was visiting once he was 104 and blind but otherwise okay and he was sitting on a chair like this and Joe was right over there and he said
Whatever happened to little Joe?
Is he still alive?
I mean, just in 98, 99.
Yeah, well, they get to a certain age, and, you know, the survivors, I mean, all my father's friends are dead now.
Right.
And it is kind of distressing.
They ask, well, we have house owners, oh, dead, dead, dead, dead.
That's right.
You know, we haven't gone into your other, I mean, this is your 19th book.
Yeah, yeah.
And I know I'm familiar with your career.
Yeah.
What are you doing now?
Well, I'm still doing New Yorker pieces, and I do a column now for Time every week.
The column that I used to syndicate to newspapers, and before that was in The Nation, is now in Time.
In fact, I just had a triumph this morning.
Not so much in what I wrote.
That's not important.
But I sent it in on American Online...
Did you save it as an ASCII-2 and then send it as an attachment?
Is that how you did it?
You know what?
I don't even understand that.
I know the phrase, but I'm not quite sure what it means.
I follow my instructions.
Did you write it, say, in WordPerfect or something like that?
Yeah.
And then you sent it over as a WordPerfect text?
Yeah, I put some gobbledygook in front.
I syndicate myself, and I have to go through this stuff, and I send a 25-second transmission.
It's a kind of different way of doing it.
Oh, yeah.
I put this sort of code here, and this code back, and then I had to, and then I sent it as a regular letter.
But I've been doing it, I started the time column in February, and I used to file on a modem from
one of the newspapers, and I just pressed a couple about the same thing.
Modem's a lot easier, but, and the, um, um, but this, uh, but this one, um, they, for some reason, they prefer AOL, and I've been doing it from home all right.
Yeah, and it's, it's, um, uh, but to do it on the road, uh, You did it from a cell phone?
I did it, no, from right there.
I plugged right in, right there, and I was very proud of myself, and I,
We have a friend staying with us from Louisiana, from New Iberia.
The third world, he calls.
And we call him our third world computer maven.
And he happens to be staying at our house this weekend.
I called this morning and said, what I want to tell you to my wife, I do not need to speak to James.
There'll be no need for a conversation with James.
I send it in, not without some problems, but I send it in.
So I'm doing that.
I'm still doing a poem every week for the nation.
I can't possibly explain why.
Deadline Poet.
Deadline Poet was a book about that.
And I thought, oh, I read a book about this.
Maybe this would be a good time to stop and do without that hundred dollars.
Is that what it is?
Yeah, I still got a hundred dollars.
So I wish I could stop, but I can't.
And then I kind of go along for a while, and I think, why am I doing this?
And then a few weeks ago, I did one on one final lot.
It was about the Jacqueline Onassis thing, which was about John John's potty.
What did it go for?
Well, I just made it up.
I would have believed that it was right.
It was pretty close.
That's funny in itself, isn't it?
That's right.
It wasn't that far from reality.
I go to auctions.
That's what I used to call the hairy golden rule, which is that anybody who tries to write satirically about the events of the day has trouble making up something that won't come true while his piece is on the presses.
You wrote a piece for the New Yorker some years ago about Johnny Jenkins?
Yes.
The book guy.
Yeah, yeah.
Sometimes on those things, you know, there's another plateau.
Now, did you think he shot himself or not?
Yes.
You did?
Yeah.
And it was a very clever suicide thing.
Yeah, that's what I thought.
But on the other hand... That's the Golan theory, but it's a pretty goddamn, pardon me, good way to...
Oh, yeah.
To do it.
I found him a very interesting character.
I didn't actually know him before.
That's a good story.
Yeah, he... He did a superior job on it.
Well, thank you.
True.
You know, sometimes there... I don't even mention him in my book because it's done.
Well, sometimes there's stories like that that, you know, you happen to catch on one plateau and then something happened.
You know, I did a piece for The New Yorker on...
the argument over who wrote the song Why Do Fools Fall in Love?
Teenagers.
And Frankie Lyman and the teenagers.
And it was really between, I mean, and when I wrote the piece, on one side was this truly evil man named Morris Levy who had
who was actually listed as the writer who had never written anything in his life, not just the owner of the copyright, but the writer of this song, and collecting royalties all these years.
And on the other side was Frankie Lyman's widow, a schoolteacher in Augusta, Georgia.
And Levy, or maybe it was Levy, I can't remember, had...
had done everything to keep her from her, including finding other widows.
Lyman was no saint, and he had a kind of a rival widow and what her lawyer called Levy's bullpen widow, a third one, in case the rival one didn't work out.
And sort of off on the side were the other teenagers, two surviving teenagers, who it was assumed
when she finally won, she would settle with in some way.
And that's when I did my story.
Well, a year or two later, in fact, another court found the surviving teenagers had written.
I don't know who wrote the song.
Probably none of them.
But, you know, the story had sort of... Yeah, the story had sort of moved into a different... And if you would approach it at that...
you would have been a different story.
But I don't think much moved on the Johnny Jenkins story.
I think that it just was what it was.
Oh, I'll have to read that book.
That's an interesting subject, Bibliomania.
I did a piece once on Larry McMurtry going to the Vassar book sale.
Do you know when you did that?
I should have known about that.
I'll try to get Larry in my book.
He didn't want to be interviewed.
I'll send it to you if you give me a card or something.
It's only a 3,000-word piece in the series I used to do around the country for The New Yorker.
The Vassar people used to have these
huge book sales.
They may still... They all know.
They're Prime Hunters.
Yeah.
Brandeis has an... They all have them.
But...